# G-chain: Blockchain based E-Governance System
<i>An Ethereum DApp for File Creation, Tracking and Management System</i><br/>

The project G-chain (as of 5 September 2020) was implemented for digitizing pension services and has the following features:
  1. Applicant Registration:
    Retiring government servants are the potential applicants. Verification of the credibility of registering applicant is done using digitized service book (implemented using smart contract calls).
  2. Applicant Form Submission:
    Necessary details for pension form (project convinient variant of Form-5: https://pensionersportal.gov.in/forms/formsforoffices/form-5.pdf) is collected and stored on the blockchain. 
  3. Application Form Status 
  4. Smart contract based data storage and retrieval: Implemented using web3 calls.
  5. Applicant Alerts:
    Applicant is notified whether their request/application was approved or rejected by who, at what time and for what reason (applicable only for rejection). 
  6. Government Official Login
  7. Government Official Approval/Rejection Procedure:
    Each Official will be able to see all the pension requests in their homepage for their perusal. Proper reason has to be entered when rejecting the application.
   
# Project Setup:
  - OS: Windows 10
  - Server: Free and open-source cross-platform web server, XAMPP (local hosting)
  - Installation requirements: Installation of web3, installation of ganache-cli/GANACHE Truffle Suite (https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache)
  - Two Smart Contracts: Service book- to store details of government employee, Gchain- to store form data generated by applicant (<b>Check folder SMART CONTRACTS</b>)
  - Code Editor: Free source-code editor, Visual Studio Code.
  - Remix IDE for contract deployment / deploy the contract using Truffle to obtain ABI(Application Binary Interface) and Smart Contract Address (https://remix.ethereum.org/#optimize=false&evmVersion=null&version=soljson-v0.6.6+commit.6c089d02.js)
  - Languages used: 
    - Website: HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SweetAlert2.
    - Framework used: JavaScript Framework- Vuejs (CDN), CSS Framework- Bootstrap4(CDN)
    - Smart Contract Language: Solidity
 
<br/><b>Please Note</b><br/>
* Download these files into a folder with foldername 'blockdata' --> else, work through all the files to change the path name.
* Run the SQL commands in the <b>DATABASES</b> folder for proper functioning. 
* Check the <b>OUTPUT</b> folder for results (Last Modified 5th of September 2020)
* Extract the zipped files- node_modules (contains web3), PHPMailer (to send e-mail alerts) in their respective folders
* Substitude ABI and Contract Address in the corresponding files. 

<br/>Any suggestions/add-ons/optimization ideas are welcome. 
Check the <b>LICENSE</b> File before proceeding. 

